# Introduction

**BTCAddr(esses)Gen(erator)**

This is a Bitcoin Address Generator! You can use this tool to generate new bitcoin address offline, and import private key to your bitcoin wallet or publish your bitcoin address. It's an alternative way to working with bitcoin address.

* You can import the generated private key (WIF format) to bitcoin wallet.
* You can make signature for your file by provide/generate a private key.
* This program is depend on **ECDSA++**, it's a very useful C++ library to help you build a program working with ECDSA algorithm.

If you like this project and like to make a donation, please `1JGNGFj2grWC3Ac5zBZBME66YjFc6kZUFr`

# How to use?

I do not provide compiled binaries, you need compile sources by following those steps below.

## Requirements.

* You need install library [secp256k1](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1.git)`secp256k1`
* You need install library OpenSSL
* You need CMake to generate Makefile
* You need a C++ compiler, gcc 4.7+ or clang 3+

## Compile

* Clone source to your local disk `git clone https://github.com/gladosconn/btcaddrgen`
* Run in console `cd btcaddrgen && mkdir build && cd build && cmake .. && make -j3`

> You might need to specify OPENSSL_ROOT_DIR for CMake to find your OpenSSL library.

## Run

### Generate a new key pair.

Generate a new key pair means you get a new bitcoin address with private key. There are two way to generate it.

1. Use `-g` parameter to generate a new key pair.

Just simply run program with `-g` parameter like below to generate a new key pair with bitcoin address displayed.
```
./btcaddrgen -g
```

2. Signing a file without import a private key will generate a new key pair automatically.

You can signing file by using `-s` parameter without providing a private key (parameter: `-p`), generator will generate a new key pair for you to signing your file and show to you.

```
./btcaddrgen -s [Your file to signing]
```

### Get bitcoin address from a private key.

You only need to save your private key after your bitcoin address generated, provide private key is easy to calculate your bitcoin address also the public key. Use parameter `-p` to import your private key, program will show the public key and bitcoin address to the screen.

```
./btcaddrgen -p [Private key in base58 format | Private key in WIF format]
```

### Signing file.

Signing a file allows you make a signature for a file with your private key, other people will be able to verify your signature to ensure it is signed by you.

Provide your file path with `-s` and also you can provide existing private key to make signature. If no private key provide, program will generate a new key pair for you.

```
./btcaddrgen -s [Your file to signing] -p [Your private key in base58 format]
```

### Verifying a signature.

To verifying a signature, you need

1. Public key provide in base58 format
2. Signature in base58 format
3. Data file

Public key is provided by the signature owner, owner make a signature from data file with private key and provide public key, signature to prove the data file is sent by him/her. You verifying the signature with public key to the data file to ensure it. The command below to show you how to verify.

```
./btcaddrgen -v [Data file path] -u [Public key in base58 format] -i [Signature in base58 format]
```

## Sample

The following lines were generated by `btcaddrgen`, **DON'T USE THIS ADDRESS TO RECEIVE BITCOIN PLEASE!**

```
address: 1KdmnoWbqHxqoER9ADLuw7FndRDsLJ33KZ
public key: mUFUkT1VsghGCwkTvPveybbv6PYVaDemEJuqWYjuHMKu
private key: BPnJQQztyo4RrPERL7WL15h1pm1GzzcvHb5ZjhqGUhz6
Private key(WIF): L2PstdDvoQTEA3Psmqp5PAW71PnjmRB6UyD8U3kSoTyNQjztMgvw
```

# Support?

If you got problem, just fire an issue on [Issues page](https://github.com/gladosconn/btcaddrgen/issues), or drop an email to: gladosconn[at]gmail.com
